[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to this video on
variable scope.
Now variable scope is a very complex thing
to understand initially but
once you do understand it it does become
considerably easy to understand.
So, first of all, a variable scope and
when you're given
a page, or when you write a page in
Python, it'll have
several functions within it, usually.
Each of these function has its own
purpose.
And that is what you're programming a
function to do.
You're programming it to do something that
it specifically needs to do.
However, within the entire page you can
have something called a global variable as
well.
Now a global variable could be a number,
it could be a name, so you could use
it as a brand name, you could use it as a
way of indicating a setting in the file.
For example, something like that, and a
global variable will be accessible
throughout each of these normal functions
as well as the entire page.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Now, because you've got a global function
and a global variable, you'll also have
local variable and a local variable will
only be available within each of these.
And within each of the ones which its
declared
within, so you declare a global variable
outside of
the actual individual, individual
functions, and it can be
used across the entire range of functions
within a page.
A local variable you declare within an
individual function.
And once it's been declared, if you go
outside that function, it is no longer
accessible.
So there are differences between whether
you want to use a local or a global.
For example, if you were using a global
and
you changed something within one function,
it would change
it within the entire page, it would change
it
outside of the function, it would change
it everywhere.
Whereas if were to change something a
local variable within
a function, it would change within that
function, it would
be used within that function, but as soon
as it
came out of the function that variable
would no longer exist.
So there's several different uses for
this.
First of all, with local variables you can
use the same name across
variable various various different
functions.
And they won't interrupt with each event
they won't contr, contradict each other.
However, if you were to use the same name
in a
global it would expect you to be meaning
the initial one.
And if you do odd meaning initial one, it
would overwrite it and
then you'd have a slight problem with now
the way that your code works.
For example, if you weren't expecting it
to do that.
You would also with a local variable, you
have the ability to sort of change
content within a function accidentally and
not break your actual code.
So it's not intrusive.
[SOUND] So because it's not intrusive, if
you were to actually
make a mistake within a function, if
something did go wrong,
if you were to just simply go back into
that one
function you can find your mistake easily
because usually a function's only.
And a short [UNKNOWN] code compared to the
rest of the page.
Now this obviously is still a problem
because you are still
making a mistake and it's now working as
you'd expected it to.
However, because it's only within a local
function, a local variable
where the mistake is, it's motive is
diagnose and find a problem.
If a global variable makes mistake, it
could be
invariable in function one, function two,
function three, four.
It could be in the actual main button at
the page, it could be anywhere.
And so when you are using a global, if you
make a mistake
is harder on the make than if you were
using a local variable.
Now, that's not to say that global label
don't have a use, because they certainly
do.
And for example if you were to actually
create a, a page
in which needs to have a certain value as
being constant, then
that is a very good use for a global
because it can't
change anyway, so there's no difference in
whether or not it does change.
For example if you were to use a pay roll
and people
got paid a default value per hour, so say
$10 an hour, then
all you need to do is pass that through to
each function which needs it
and it would, [UNKNOWN] automatically,
what the actual pay is.
You would have to recreate that variable
each time.
Eem, cuz this thing is saying there's no
point in recreating it.
You may as well pass it to all of them.
However, if you were to create a number of
hours worked, then
a global variable could be useful but, it
could be hindering as well.
It could be useful if that one person's if
your, if
your page is per person word, which it
usually will be.
So you've got nothing to worry about in
that case.
Then you could say that it worked for 0.5
hours a week.
And then you could pass that into a, a
function and
you could check whether that number of
hours worked is overtime.
If it is overtime then you can give him
another rate, that sort of thing.
So therefore, a global variable would be
useful in that case.
So there are different uses between
whether you want it to be global or local.
And if you do decide to go global, just
make sure that you are using the
variable name only when you actually mean
to
use that variable name and if you do need
to create something locally to give it a
different name otherwise you will have the
problem of
it overwriting your global, and changing
how it
affects the rest of all your functions as
well.
So, thank you for watching.
I'm Max [UNKNOWN] from [INAUDIBLE]
program.tv and I'll see you soon.
[MUSIC]